# Policy guide

This is a short guide to creating a [contributions and credit policy](README.md) for your open source project.

## Scope of the policy

The policy should cover all types of contribution: documentation, code, tutorials, event organization, testing, design, etc. It should describe what contributions are welcome, how the project leaders will respond to them, and how credit will be distributed. It should focus primarily on cases in which people frequently disagree, such as when multiple people independently implement the same feature, how credit is distributed when multiple people or organizations collaborate on a contribution, or whether contributions generated by automation are welcome.

Legal issues around IP or copyright are out of scope of this policy. Those issues should be addressed in contributor agreements, licenses, and other documents.

## Situations to consider

Here are few examples of situations that a credit policy may need to address:

* Someone sends a first draft (of a document, code, HTML, etc.). A second person makes significant edits to it.
* Someone sends a first draft. Another person comments with ideas leading the original sender to incorporate them in the second draft.
* Someone sends a first draft. Another person entirely rewrites it from scratch.
* Someone sends a contribution. The contribution does not improve the project.
* Someone sends a contribution but does not complete the "sign-off" or other process step that the project requires. The first reminder goes unanswered for several days.
* Someone sends a first draft. It fixes a real problem but in a way that is unacceptable for inclusion. They do not respond or are unwilling to make the necessary changes for inclusion.
* Someone sends a contribution but no one else in the project notices. Later another person makes a similar contribution and gets credit for it.
* Someone sends a contribution which is valuable to the project but directly conflicts with other project plans. Accepting the contribution requires rewriting the contribution completely.
* Someone sends a somewhat useless contribution. When you look at their contribution history, you see them sending a lot of useless contributions to other projects.
* Someone sends a contribution that seems suspicious. When you look at their contribution history, they seem to have rewritten a lot of other people's contributions.
* Someone sends a lot of tiny separate trivial contributions. They aren't actually making much difference to the project, but if you accept them all it will look like they should have credit for half the project.
* Someone sends a contribution. For whatever reason, the contribution does not actually seem to be motivated by a desire to improve the project.
* Someone sends a contribution but a project leader hates the style.
* Someone sends a contribution and it seems kind of mean-spirited.
* Someone sends a complaint which gets ignored or rejected. Later, the maintainers find themselves fixing the subject of the complaint anyway.

## Elements of a policy

The basic elements of a well-rounded contributions and credit policy may include:

* What contributions are welcome
* How to contribute
* What the response to contributions will be
* How credit is distributed for contributions
* List of common disagreements and how the project handles them
* How to report any situations in which the policy is not being followed
* Instructions for people implementing the policy

The instructions for implementing the policy do not need to be published (but may be).

### Policy introduction

The introduction describes the overall philosophy of your project towards contributions: what kind of contributions you want to encourage, what kind of contributors you want participating, what your priorities are when it comes to different aspects of quality or productivity. Your introduction should discourage the kind of contributions you don't want and encourage the kind of contributions you do want.

Note: The more contributions you want to encourage, the more documentation and structured design discussion you actually need. Contributors are more likely to send work that can be smoothly integrated into the project when it has documentation not only on how to use the project, but also architectural decisions, and how the project decides the future direction of the project.

Here are some possible introductions that prioritize different goals.

#### We welcome a broad range of contributions from as many contributors as possible

We encourage contributions from as many contributors as possible, and strive to make contributing easy and rewarding. We prefer to guide original contributors through the process of making necessary changes to any contributions, and reward mentoring and review. When a contribution is the combined effort of several people, we prefer to give primary credit to newer contributors. We give credit generously for all of the work that goes into making this project a success, including testing, review, debugging, mentoring, operations, documentation, and similar work.

#### We welcome contributions that do not need much work

We encourage contributions but our existing contributors have limited time to mentor or guide new contributors. When a contribution needs changes, existing contributors will usually make any necessary changes themselves rather than working with the original contributor to make the changes. However, we strive to give primary credit to the original contributor whenever possible. We especially encourage contributions that make it easier for new contributors to become productive without direct mentoring, such as documentation, tutorials, refactoring, tests, and similar.

#### We accept outside contributions rarely or never

Our priority is quality of contributions and architectural cohesion. We prefer contributions from existing contributors who are already familiar with our processes and standards, and are carrying out the architectural vision of our leaders. We do not mentor or guide new contributors. When existing contributors rewrite, reuse, or are inspired by contributions from new contributors, it is up to the existing contributor to decide how or if to credit the original author.

#### We prioritize speed of development

Our priority is speed of development. We reward contributors who send working contributions quickly. We prefer to give credit to the person who sends the first acceptable form of a contribution rather than the original contributor.

#### Other potential introductions

Here are a few examples of other kinds of contribution policies. We welcome contributions to expand these into full introductions or add new ones.

* Maintenance mode - bug fixes only
* My personal project subject to my personal whims
* Our corporate project not open to outside contributions
* Our research project not open to outside contributions

### Specific rules for assigning credit

Here is a selection of possible rules for assigning credit. We recommend choosing the ones that encourage the behavior you describe in your introduction. For example, if you want to encourage new contributors, choose rules that give credit more generously to new contributors than existing ones.

Note: don’t get too wrapped up in who “really wrote a contribution.” Most contributions are a collaborative effort by multiple people. Even for a one line contribution, it would be impossible to give credit to every single person who made it possible. Instead, focus on what behaviors you want to reward and which ones you want to discourage, and be creative about how you do that.

Here are some example sections and associated options for giving credit.

#### Credit giving summary options

Our overall philosophy of giving credit is: [CHOOSE APPLICABLE]

* We give credit by name to all contributors. When submitting a contribution, we expect contributors to include accurate information about who contributed to the work.
* The project leaders are the sole authority on who gets credit and will assign it to no one, to themselves, or to others as they see fit.
* The project leaders will not credit external contributors. All new contributions will be credited to the current project leaders.
* If a contribution includes substantial work from multiple authors, we will give primary credit to the least experienced contributor.
* If we need to rewrite a contribution, we will give primary credit to the author of the first version and secondary credit to the person rewriting it.
* If we need to rewrite a contribution, we will give primary credit to the person rewriting it and secondary credit to the author of the first version.
* If we need to rewrite a contribution, we will work with the original author to make the necessary changes for as long as they respond in good faith and in a timely manner. In any case, the original author will get primary credit.
* All people and organizations involved in the contribution get credit equally.
* If multiple contributors submit similar work, the accepted author gets primary credit and every other contributor, whose work was thus rejected, gets secondary credit.
* If your contribution is substantially informed by or a rewrite of another person's work, they should receive [primary/secondary] credit in the form of [INSTRUCTIONS].
* [YOUR SUGGESTION HERE]

#### Specific details of how credit is given

How we give credit: [CHOOSE APPLICABLE]

* For commits to a repository, the primary author is the commit author.
* For reviews, editing, testing, debugging, or reporting directly related to a specific contribution, we add a line in the change message such as “Reviewed-by” or “Edited-by”.
* For contributions that are not specific to an individual change, such as hosting, DevOps, DevRel, issue curation, etc, we will add your name to [LIST AND LOCATION OF PUBLICATION]. To be added to this list, please see [INSTRUCTIONS]. [Suggestion: include an option for extremely minor contributions.]
* [YOUR SUGGESTION HERE]

We reserve the right to change how we give credit when following this policy seems detrimental to our project. Some examples of when we may not follow our credit guidelines:

* Someone requests credit to a name that is obscene or harmful
* Someone is spamming multiple projects with useless changes
* We don't want to be associated with the contributor
* A contributor is not following our code of conduct or otherwise harming our project

#### Specific instructions for contributors who want credit

Please make it easy for us to accept and credit your contribution! Here are the steps to take to get the most credit for your work: [CHOOSE APPLICABLE]

* Include credit for each contributor according to our credit guidelines below.
* Put your name into the AUTHORS file.
* Agree to the CLA [or other IP/copyright assignment/legal process].
* Follow the instructions in CONTRIBUTING.
* Respond to requests for changes within N days.
* Cooperate in good faith with our requests for changes.
* If you do not want to make changes, please tell us as soon as possible.
* [YOUR SUGGESTION HERE]

#### Instructions for maintainers giving credit

If for some reasons you can’t or won’t make necessary changes to your contribution, we will: [CHOOSE ONE OR MORE AND EDIT TO FIT]

* Reject your contribution and take no further action.
* Incorporate your original contribution as is, then make a second change with any edits.
* Incorporate your contribution along with any necessary edits with primary credit to the newest contributor, with a link in the change message to your original contribution on our mailing list or other archive of original contributions (e.g. a directory in the source code, a section of the wiki, etc.).
* If you did not [sign off, agree to the CLA, other necessary process step], we will rewrite from scratch and include a link to the original contribution in the change message.
* [YOUR SUGGESTION HERE]

#### Correcting mistakes in credit

Sometimes we make a mistake in how we give credit. In this project: [CHOOSE APPLICABLE]

* Once credit has been given, we will not go back and correct it.
* We will correct mistakes in credit attribution for up to [TIME PERIOD] after credit has been given.
* We will correct mistakes in credit at any point.
* [YOUR SUGGESTIONS HERE]

We will correct problems with credit by: [CHOOSE APPLICABLE]

* Reverting the commit and checking it back in with the correct credit.
* Updating the Git mailmap file.
* Updating the CREDITS file.
* Sending a message to [PROJECT DISCUSSION FORUM] noting the corrected credit information.
* [YOUR SUGGESTIONS HERE]

#### Reporting problems with contributions and credit

If you notice that this policy has not been followed properly, please contact [CONTACT INFORMATION] and include any relevant information. They will review your report and take any action they deem appropriate, including but not limited to updating credit information, warning the person or organization who did not follow the policy, no longer accepting contributions from a particular source, updating the policy, or forwarding the complaint to the community code of conduct committee.

### Contributor names

People often make assumptions about names that don't apply to their project's contributors. An explicit convention for writing names and updating them can be a helpful part of a policy that credits people by name. A project can't credit somebody if it can't write their name properly.

Here are some common beliefs about names that are not universally true (as any who has worked with databases of names can confirm):

* Names are unique
* Company + name combination is unique
* It's possible to assume the name's gender
* The English alphabet is enough
* Every name can be uniquely and readably represented in ASCII
* ISO-8859-1 is enough
* Latin characters suffice
* The name is at most 42 characters
* Names are written left-to-right
* First first names, then surnames
* Everybody has a first name and a surname
* Everybody has just one string of Unicode characters which is their name
* Names can be easily grepped from a natural text written in sentences
* The name is eternal and doesn't change
* [YOUR SUGGESTION HERE]

Use this list to help choose your contributor name convention.

#### Contributor name conventions

Our convention for names associated with contributions is: [CHOOSE APPLICABLE]

* Write your name as an ASCII string.
* Write your name in UTF-8.
* We only accept legal names; prove your identity via [INSTRUCTIONS].
* We accept any name a contributor is known by as long as a maintainer can verify your connection to the name using [INSTRUCTIONS].
* Include your signature as an image.
* Write any number of names you want, noting how to use each variant.
* Include your gender or pronouns marker.
* Write a legal name which you are not actually using but it's written in your passport.
* Write a former name or deadname which you are not using anymore but the maintainers should know for some reason.
* [YOUR SUGGESTION HERE]

#### Contributor name change policy

From time to time, names change. Here is our policy for changing names associated with credit for this project: [CHOOSE APPLICABLE]

* We store everything in public Git, all updates are public, send a pull request. Use git mailmap to rename the Git author.
* We store everything in private Git so it is still auditable but public is only the last version. Send a change request.
* Update your user profile, everything else gets fixed automatically.
* Fill in this document by hand and fax it to us.
* Visit us in the office in Orlando, Florida, and explain your identity change to a panel of seven officers.
* [YOUR SUGGESTION HERE]

## Resources

Here are some additional resources for developing a contributions and credit policy:

* List of [projects with policies](policies.md)
* GitHub bot to simplify crediting contributors who are not making pull requests: [https://allcontributors.org/](https://allcontributors.org/)
* Work in progress: [Standards to define software authorship and credit](https://www.researchsoft.org/tf-authorship-contribution/) in the context of scientific research, by the [Research Software Alliance](https://www.researchsoft.org/), based on work by [SORTÆD](https://sdruskat.net/software-authorship/)
* [YOUR SUGGESTION HERE]
